Work permit or residence permit to work in Sweden – Swedish Migration Agency
You want to apply
Work
You want to apply
Work
You want to apply for a work permit or a residence permit to work in Sweden, or as an accompanying family member of someone who is working.
You want to apply for a work permit or a residence permit to work as an employee or self-employed person in Sweden, or as an accompanying family member.
You want to apply for a work permit or a residence permit for a temporary employment in Sweden.
You want to apply for a residence permit to look for work in Sweden.
Certain people do not need to apply for a work permit to work in Sweden.
Here you can find information on what you can do to avoid fake job offers and employers who do not follow the rules.
Information for employers planning to employ people who need a permit to work in Sweden.
News
2026-06-16
New median salary affects the salary requirement for work permits
Statistics Sweden (SCB) has now updated the median salary in Sweden. As of 16 June, the median salary is SEK 38,300, which means that you must have a salary/wages of at least SEK 34,470 (90 per cent of the median salary) a month in order to be granted a work permit.
2026-06-01
New rules for work permits now apply
New rules for work permits are now coming into effect in Sweden. The changes include a new salary requirement, a requirement for comprehensive health insurance, and minimum salary levels for seasonal work permits and ICT permits.
2026-05-25
New rules for researchers and doctoral students
The Swedish Parliament has decided on new rules for researchers and doctoral students. The rules mean, among other things, that doctoral students with a hosting agreement can receive a residence permit for research, that it will be easier to receive a permanent residence permit, and that you can apply for another permit in Sweden in more situations.
2026-04-17
New rules for work permits from 1 June 2026
From 1 June 2026, new rules for work permits will begin to apply in Sweden. The rules affect those who are applying for or extending a work permit for employment in Sweden.
2026-04-13
Easier to renew your permanent residence permit card
It will now be easier to renew your permanent residence permit card. You will automatically receive information and a request to book an appointment via My page well in advance of your current card expiring.