Straight to Residence Visa » Immigration New Zealand
Straight to Residence Visa :: Immigration New Zealand
Skip to main content
Skip to main navigation
Skip to secondary navigation
Skip to search
Travel disrupted by the Middle East situation
Issued:
Monday 02 Mar 2026, 07:10 pm NZDT
We have established a priority phone line from Monday to Friday for people to contact us about this specific situation.
Call
0508 558 855 (toll free from NZ landlines) or +64
9 914 4100
and press option 7
. For information about what options are available to you, check:
Middle East: advice for temporary visa holders in New Zealand affected by travel disruptions
Straight to Residence Visa
Apply for this visa if you have a job or job offer with an accredited employer, and your job is on Tier 1 of the Green List of in-demand jobs.
Apply online
Length of stay
Live, work and study
indefinitely
Cost
From
NZD $6450
Processing time
80% within
4 months
Age range
55 years or younger
To apply you must:
be aged 55 or younger when you apply
be working for an
or have a job offer from one
have or be offered a Green List Tier 1 job that is
speak and understand English
meet the other requirements of this visa.
This visa lets you:
live, work and study in New Zealand
include your partner and dependent children aged 24 or younger in your visa application.
On this page
Apply online
How long you can stay
A Straight to Residence Visa lets you stay in New Zealand indefinitely.
After you have had this visa for 2 years in a row, you can apply for a Permanent Resident Visa that lets you travel in and out of New Zealand indefinitely.
Check the 'While you are in New Zealand' section for more information.
While you are in New Zealand
Who can apply
To apply for this visa, you must:
be aged 55 or younger
have an offer of, or be working in, a Green List Tier 1 in-demand job with an accredited employer
be in good health
be of good character
have a genuine relationship with your partner and dependent children, if including them
speak and understand English.
Note
For teaching roles eligible for the Green List Tier 1, Straight to Residence is designed for experienced teachers who are working at, or are offered, roles paid at the median wage. It is not intended for newly graduated teachers or those early in their careers who are not yet earning at this level. Newly graduated teachers can still apply to live and work in New Zealand while they build experience and should consider applying under the Post Study Work Visa or the Accredited Employer Work Visa.
Age
You must be aged 55 or younger when you apply.
We check your identity document to confirm your age.
Current job or job offer
You must have the offer of a job or already work in a Green List Tier 1 job.
The Green List is a list of jobs that we need people for in New Zealand — these jobs are separated into skill levels called tiers.
The job must:
be with an
be a Tier 1 job on the Green List
pay at least the rate specified for your Green List Tier 1 job, or the current median wage if a pay rate is not specified for your job
be
, and
be permanent or fixed-term for at least 12 months (from when you apply), or a contract or continuous contracts for at least 6 months.
Accredited employer list
About Green List jobs
The Green List is a list of jobs that we need people for in New Zealand — these jobs are separated into skill levels called tiers.
Tier 1 jobs allow you to apply for a Straight to Residence Visa.
Tier 2 jobs allow you to apply for a Work to Residence Visa.
You must also meet the Green List requirements for your job. Requirements can include needing to be paid a certain amount or have a specific registration, professional membership, or qualification.
Search the Green List for your job and the requirements you need to meet.
Green list roles — jobs we need people for in New Zealand
How much you must earn
When you apply for this visa, you must be paid at least:
the rate specified for your Green List Tier 1 job, or
NZD $35.00 an hour (the 2025 median wage) if a wage rate is not specified for your Green List job.
Wage rates for visas
Documents you can provide to show what you earn include:
your employment agreement, fixed-term contract or employment offer letter from an accredited employer — it must show your hours, duration of employment, position and pay
contract or contracts (without breaks) adding up to 6 months or more.
Contractors
If your job will be based on a contract for services, you may have additional pay or skill requirements you need to meet. Check the Green List to see if there are any other requirements for your job — if there are, they will be listed under the 'Green List requirements' for your job.
Green list roles — jobs we need people for in New Zealand
If your job has a wage threshold for employment based on a contract for services, you will need evidence showing:
you have 10 years of relevant experience, and
you are paid at least the contract for services wage threshold.
Wage rates for visas
Qualifications not gained in New Zealand
You may need an
for qualifications gained outside New Zealand. If you need an IQA, you must apply and include the results in your visa application.
Not all international qualifications need to be assessed, such as the Washington or Sydney Accord qualifications.
Check if you need an International Qualification Assessment
Health
You, and anyone else included in your application, must be in good health.
Why you may need to provide evidence you are in good health
You, and anyone else included aged 15 or older, must complete a chest X-ray and medical examination.
Dependent children included in your application and aged:
10 or younger, must get a medical examination, but do not need a chest X-ray unless we or your
ask for one
11 to 14, must get a medical examination and a chest X-ray, but only need a blood test if we or your panel physician ask for one.
Who needs an X-ray or medical examination
How to get an X-ray or medical examination
If you have provided medical certificates to us before and those certificates were issued within the last 3 years, you may not need to provide them again.
Note
Evidence of a chest X-ray or medical examination must be less than 3 months old when we receive it.
Character
You, and anyone else included in your application, must be of good character.
If you, and anyone else included, are aged 17 or older, you must provide police certificates that are less than 6 months old when you apply.
If you have a criminal conviction, or are a security risk to New Zealand, we might not give you a visa.
Character requirements for New Zealand visas
You must get police certificates from:
countries you are a citizen of, and
countries where you have spent 12 months or more in over the last 10 years — even if those 12 months were not all in one stay.
Police certificates must show any criminal records you have had at any time in any of these countries — not only in the last 10 years.
If we ask for a new police certificate when processing your application, you will need to send us a new one.
Police certificates
Partner and dependent children
If you include your partner and dependent children in your application, you must have a genuine relationship with them.
You need to provide documents — like marriage and birth certificates — that prove your relationship to your partner and dependent children aged 24 or younger.
Partnership and how to prove it
Bringing children
Note
If your partner or dependent children already have, or are applying for, a work, student or visitor visa based on their relationship to you, you must include them in your residence application.
English language
You must speak and understand English.
There are 2 ways to show us you speak and understand English — through:
your citizenship, where you studied and the qualifications you gained
English language tests.
The results of your English language test must:
meet the minimum score we set
be no more than 2 years old when you apply.
Find out about the requirements around citizenship, study and qualifications, the test results required, and how to buy English language lessons:
English language requirements for skilled residence visas
Note
When we assess your application, we may ask for more proof of your and your family's ability to speak English. If we do, you and your family may have to sit tests and send us the results.
English language for family
Your partner and dependent children aged 16 or older must speak English or pay for classes to learn English in New Zealand.
There are 3 ways your partner and dependent children aged 16 or older can show us they speak English — through:
their citizenship, where they studied and the qualifications they gained
English language tests
paying for English language lessons.
The results of their English language test must:
meet the minimum score we set
be no more than 2 years old when you apply.
Documents you need
When you apply
When you apply, you will need to provide:
a copy of your passport or
1 acceptable photo
evidence of a chest X-ray
evidence of a medical examination
police certificates
evidence that you can speak and understand English
evidence you have a job offer or already work in a Green List Tier 1 in-demand job with an accredited employer — and that you meet the other requirements for the job
translated versions of all your documents if they are not in English.
If you are including your partner and dependent children, provide:
documents to show your relationship with them
proof of their identity and acceptable photos
police certificates, if required
evidence of chest X-rays and medical examinations, if required
evidence they can speak English or have paid for English language lessons.
Sending your passport for an online visa application
Visa and NZeTA photos
After you apply
After you apply, we may contact you and ask for:
your original passport or
more evidence such as bank statements or pay slips showing your salary payments
more evidence of your ability to speak and understand English.
How to apply
Follow these steps to complete your application online.
Note
To help prevent delays with processing, make sure your application contains all the required documents.
1
Step 1:
Gather your documents
The section 'Who can apply' explains the requirements for this visa and what you will need as proof.
Get documents translated
For your application you must provide:
certified English translations of any documents that are not in English
copies of the original documents.
Documents must be translated by someone who meets our requirements for providing English translations.
Providing English translations of supporting documents
File formats for uploading documents and photos
Organise proof of identity, citizenship and age
If you, or your family if they are included, need a new passport, allow enough time to get it.
When you apply, make sure you enter your identity details exactly as they appear on your passport or certificate of identity.
Alert
If there are any mistakes in your identity details, your application will be delayed. We may also decline your application or refuse you entry to New Zealand.
Make sure your photos are acceptable for a New Zealand visa.
Visa and NZeTA photos
Organise proof for your partner and dependent children, if required
If you are including your partner and dependent children in your application, get documents that show your relationship with them and proof of their identity.
Book medical appointments, if required
If you have determined you, and your family if included, need chest X-rays or medical examinations, you will need to book appointments.
How to get an X-ray or medical examination
To complete your application, you will need to provide the:
reference code from the clinic submitting your health information
name of the clinic submitting your health information, if there is no eMedical reference code, or
medical certificate, chest X-ray certificate, or both if the clinic gave these to you.
Note
Evidence of a chest X-ray or medical examination must be less than 3 months old when we receive them. Allow yourself enough time to get these.
Apply for police certificates, if required
Check what you will need to include for a residence visa.
Character requirements for New Zealand visas
If you have determined you need police certificates, you will need to provide them with your application.
Use the tool to find out how to get police certificates from different countries.
Police certificates
Note
Your police certificates must be less than 6 months old when you submit your application. Allow yourself enough time to get these certificates.
Organise evidence of your job or job offer
Get evidence that you meet the requirements for your Tier 1 Green List job.
Ask your accredited employer for documents that show your hours, duration of employment, position and pay of your job. These can include your employment agreement or job offer.
If you are a contractor, get a copy of your contract or contracts. If required, get evidence of 10 years' experience and being in the higher wage threshold.
If you need an
for your overseas qualification, allow yourself enough time to get one.
Check if you need an International Qualification Assessment
Organise evidence of English language ability
Organise evidence of citizenship, study and qualifications, or English language test results.
English language requirements for skilled residence visas
2
Step 2:
Submit your application and pay the fee
To apply online, log in to your account or set up an account if you do not have one already.
You can then fill in your application, upload your documents and pay the applicable fees.
Check the 'How to pay and submit' section for fees.
3
Step 3:
Wait for our decision
We will let you know if we need more information to process your application.
Waiting for a visa
Check the 'How to pay and submit' section for timeframes.
Note
If you are already in New Zealand, you must have a valid visa. If you think your current visa may expire while you are waiting for our decision on your resident visa application, you should also apply for a temporary visa to work, study or visit.
When you apply for a temporary visa, we can give you an Interim Visa if your current visa expires while your application is being processed. This will let you stay in New Zealand lawfully.
Interim Visa
4
Step 4:
Check your application status
Log in to your account to check the status of your application.
Check your application progress
We will email you when we make a decision.
If we approve your application, we will give you an eVisa and send you a copy.
Visa labels and eVisas
Check the 'While you are in New Zealand' section to find out what you can and cannot do on this visa.
How to pay and submit
When you get your visa
You must come to New Zealand within 12 months of the date your visa is issued, if you applied for your visa outside of New Zealand.
When you arrive
Entry requirements
As part of New Zealand’s entry requirements, everyone must complete a New Zealand Traveller Declaration (NZTD). This form collects information about your travel, including customs, immigration, and biosecurity details.
When you can submit your NZTD depends on how you're travelling:
By air: You can submit it from 24 hours before your journey begins.
By sea: You can submit it from 24 hours before your ship leaves its last overseas port heading to New Zealand.
If you have an NZeTA, you can specify in your declaration that you are applying for a visa on arrival.
A paper declaration form is available for travellers who cannot complete it online.
New Zealand Traveller Declaration
New Zealand Customs and Biosecurity also check that you meet their entry requirements.
Arriving in New Zealand
Alert
You can be refused entry permission if you:
do not meet our character requirements
have had a change in circumstances since we issued your visa
refuse to let us take your photo, fingerprints or an iris scan.
What might stop you from being allowed to enter New Zealand
While you are in New Zealand
Your visa conditions are recorded in your eVisa.
Your resident visa allows you to live, work and study in New Zealand indefinitely.
Travel
You can travel in and out of New Zealand as many times as you like until your travel conditions expire.
Your travel conditions expire 2 years from:
the date you first arrive in New Zealand as a resident, or
the date your visa is given, if you are already in New Zealand.
To travel after that, you need to:
get a Permanent Resident Visa, or
extend your travel conditions, which would let you return to New Zealand at a later date.
Permanent Resident Visa
Check or change your resident visa conditions
With a Permanent Resident Visa, you can travel in and out of New Zealand indefinitely, as long as you keep your visa in a valid passport.
If your passport expires, you must apply to transfer your visa to a new passport before you can travel.
Transferring your visa to a new passport
Alert
If you are outside of New Zealand when your travel conditions expire, your visa will expire as well.
Work
You can work in any job for any employer in New Zealand.
Study
You can study anywhere in New Zealand for any length of time.
Staying longer
Getting a Permanent Resident Visa
After you have had a Straight to Residence Visa for 2 years in a row, you can apply for a Permanent Resident Visa.
With a Permanent Resident Visa, you can travel in and out of New Zealand indefinitely, as long as you keep your visa in a valid passport.
Becoming a permanent resident
Permanent Resident Visa
Getting citizenship
For most people, after 5 years of living in New Zealand as a resident, you may be able to get New Zealand citizenship. You do not need a Permanent Resident Visa first.
Requirements for NZ citizenship — New Zealand Government
Cookie Information
We use cookies on this website to show you relevant information, understand how you use the site and to ensure the site functions properly.
Manage your cookie preferences
Privacy statement
Accept all
Necessary only
Cookie preferences
Functional cookies
We have cookies that make our website
                            function correctly. You cannot opt out of these cookies.
Necessary
Site preferences
These cookies remember the information you
                            have entered so we can show content relevant to you based on your site preferences.
Statistics and analysis
These cookies help us collect statistics
                            and other analytical information so we can improve and manage the site.
Marketing
These cookies track your use of other
                            websites so they can provide you with more relevant and engaging advertisements.
{{ cookieButtonText }}
Privacy statement