Skilled Worker visa: Overview - GOV.UK
Cookies on GOV.UK
We use some essential cookies to make this website work.
We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services.
We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services.
You have accepted additional cookies.
You can
change your cookie settings
at any time.
You have rejected additional cookies.
You can
change your cookie settings
at any time.
Accept additional cookies
Reject additional cookies
View cookies
Hide cookie message
Skip to main content
Skilled Worker visa
Skip contents
Overview
A Skilled Worker visa allows you to come to or stay in the UK to do an eligible job with an approved employer.
This visa has replaced the Tier 2 (General) work visa.
It also allows you to work in UK waters.
Eligibility
Your job
To qualify for a Skilled Worker visa, you must:
work for a UK employer that’s been approved by the Home Office
have a ‘certificate of sponsorship’ (
CoS
) from your employer with information about the role you’ve been offered in the UK
do a job that’s on the list of eligible occupations
be paid a minimum salary - how much depends on the type of work you do and the date you got your
CoS
The specific
eligibility depends on your job
.
You must have a confirmed job offer before you apply for your visa.
Knowledge of English
You must be able to speak, read, write and understand English. You’ll usually need to
prove your knowledge of English
when you apply.
If you’re not eligible for a Skilled Worker visa
You may be eligible for
another type of visa to work in the UK
.
How long you can stay
Your visa can last for up to 5 years before you need to extend it. You’ll need to apply to extend or update your visa when it expires or if you change jobs or employer.
If you want to stay longer in the UK
You can apply to extend your visa as many times as you like as long as you still meet the eligibility requirements.
After 5 years, you may be able to
apply to settle permanently in the UK
(also known as ‘indefinite leave to remain’). This gives you the right to live, work and study here for as long as you like, and apply for benefits if you’re eligible.
How to apply
You must apply online.
How you apply depends on whether you’re:
outside the UK
and are coming to the UK
inside the UK and
extending your current visa
inside the UK and
switching from a different visa
If you want to change your job or employer, you must
apply to update your visa
.
Your partner and children
may be able to apply to join you or stay in the UK as your ‘dependants’.
How long it takes
You can apply for a visa up to 3 months before the day you are due to start work in the UK. This date is listed on your certificate of sponsorship.
As part of your application, you’ll need to prove your identity and provide your documents.
You may need to allow extra time if you need an appointment to do this. You’ll find out if you need one when you start your application.
Getting a decision
Once you’ve applied online, proved your identity and provided your documents, you’ll usually get a decision on your visa within:
3 weeks, if you’re outside the UK
8 weeks, if you’re inside the UK
You may be able to
pay to get a faster decision
- you’ll be told if you can when you apply.
If your application is successful, your
decision email
will tell you what you’ll get to prove your immigration status and what you need to do next.
How much it costs
You, your partner or children will each need to:
pay the application fee
pay the healthcare surcharge for each year of your stay
prove you have enough personal savings
Check how much money you’ll need
.
If you work in public sector healthcare
If you’re a doctor or nurse, or you work in health or adult social care, check if you’re eligible to apply for the
Health and Care Worker visa
instead. It’s cheaper to apply for and you do not need to pay the annual immigration health surcharge.
What you can and cannot do
With a Skilled Worker visa you can:
work in an eligible job
study
bring
your partner and children
with you as your ‘dependants’, if you meet the eligibility requirements
take on additional work
in certain circumstances
travel abroad and return to the UK
apply to settle permanently in the UK (also known as ‘indefinite leave to remain’) if you’ve lived in the UK for 5 years and meet the other eligibility requirements
do voluntary work
Any voluntary work you do must be unpaid and for one of the following:
a
registered charity
a voluntary organisation
an associated fundraising body (an organisation that raises money for a charity or voluntary organisation)
a statutory body (a government-appointed body, for example Historic England)
You cannot:
apply for most benefits (
public funds
), or the State Pension
change jobs or employer unless you apply to update your visa
If your application is successful, you’ll get a full list of what you can and cannot do with a Skilled Worker visa.
View a printable version of the whole guide
Related content
Is this page useful?
Maybe
Yes
this page is useful
No
this page is not useful
Thank you for your feedback
Report a problem with this page
Help us improve GOV.UK
Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
This field is for robots only. Please leave blank
What were you doing?
What went wrong?
Send
Cancel
Help us improve GOV.UK
To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab
and requires JavaScript
)
.
Cancel